Feature/mtm 56466 asset type dasboards (#1846)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/cockpit/working-with-dashboards.md

1. In the **Groups** menu select the group or the device in the navigator for which to create a dashboard.
2. Click the **Add dashboard** button right from the tabs to open the dashboard editor.

3. In the **General** tab of the dashboard editor, provide the following information:

    * An icon which is shown next to the dashboard name in the navigator.
    * A menu label to be used as the name of the dashboard.
    * A description of the dashboard.
    * The location of the dashboard in the navigator, with "5000" being ordered first and "-5000" last.
<br><br>

4. In the **Availability** section, specify which users have access to the dashboard based on global roles. By default, all available global roles are selected, which means that a user with at least one such role has access to the dashboard.

   {{< c8y-admon-info >}}
- Dashboard are always visible to its owner and to users with ADMIN permission for the permission type "Inventory".
- This functionality is entirely based on client-side solutions. If users have an accurate link to the dashboard, they will still be able to access it.
    {{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> 5. Enable the option **Dashboard template** to share the dashboard with all devices of this type. Option available for devices dashboards only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Enable the option **Dashboard template** to share the dashboard with all devices of this type. This option is only available for devices dashboards.
```

> 5. Enable the option **Dashboard template** to share the dashboard with all devices of this type. This option is only available for devices dashboards.

Reviewer: Perhaps add a link to the dashboard template section?

> 5. Enable the option **Dashboard template** to share the dashboard with all devices of this type. This option is only available for devices dashboards.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Enable the option **Dashboard template** to share the dashboard with all devices of this type. This option is only available for devices dashboards. See [To share a dashboard](#dashboard-template)
```

6. In the **Appearance** tab you can select a theme for the dashboard (one of "Match UI", "Light", "Dark" or "Branded") and a default header style for the widgets (one of "Regular", "Border", "Overlay", or "Hidden"). Moreover, you can change the default widget margin (default value is 12 px).
7. Enable the option **Translate widget titles if possible**, to have the widget title translated every time the language is changed.

    {{< c8y-admon-info >}}
The widget titles will be translated only if a valid translation is available.
    {{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> 8. User provided changes will be immediately displayed to visualize your selections in the dashboard below Dashboard settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. All changes are immediately displayed to visualize your selections in the dashboard below the dashboard settings.
```

9. Click **Save** to create and open the dashboard.

<br>Next, widgets can be added to the dashboard. They allow you to display more detailed data in your dashboard.

Refer to [Using widgets in dashboards and reports](/cockpit/using-widgets/) for details on how to add, modify or remove widgets.

> ### Dashboard template {#to-share-a-dashboard}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dashboard template {#dashboard-template}
```

You can create a dashboard for a specific device and share it with all devices of the same type. This is only possible though, if the type property is set for the device.

> To do so, enable **Dashboard template** option. A corresponding message will be displayed in the editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, enable the **Dashboard template** option. A corresponding message will be displayed in the editor.
```

> After enabling it, you can see how many devices will share this dashboard. There is also a possibility to duplicate type dashboard as regular one (assigned to current device only).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After enabling the dashboard, you can see how many devices will share this dashboard. You also have the option to duplicate type dashboard as regular one (assigned to current device only).
```

Reviewer: @eniosultan I do not really get this sentence. What does it mean?

Author: @BeateRixen  If the typed dsahboard is enabled basically it is shared to all devices with the same type. If this shared dashboard is duplicated, it would just create a new "copied" dashbord which is a regular one (the new dashboard will not be shared between all devices).

<img src="/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dashboard-share.png" name="Shared dashboard"/>

> Dashboard with Dashboard template option enabled can be accessed and modified from all devices of this type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dashboard with the dashboard template option enabled can be accessed and modified from all devices of this type. 
```

> Therefore, changes made to this dashboard are automatically applied to all dashboard instances, no matter which device view user is currently on.

Reviewer: which device view user is currently on
What does this mean?

Author: @BeateRixen  Basically the dashboard is shared between all devices which share the same type. Any changes made to the dashboard in any device would update all "linked" dashboards. Imagine 1 dashboard which is shared between Device A, B, C, D. It doesn't matter in which device you go to change the dashboard as the change would be reflected in the other devices as well.

> Therefore, changes made to this dashboard are automatically applied to all dashboard instances, no matter which device view user is currently on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that changes made to this dashboard are automatically applied to all dashboard instances, no matter from which device they have been added.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
You can only add widgets and data to the dashboard for the device itself. It is not possible to add data from child devices because the structure of these devices might be different from device to device.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### Dashboard time range {#global-time-context}

In the widget configuration, you can specify a dashboard time range for your dashboards. When using a dashboard time range, all data in a dashboard will be aligned to this range. After setting the dashboard time range in a first widget, this shared context can then be used by other widgets that are configured to use the dashboard date context.

The dashboard time range can be set to any time span, depending on the monitoring needs, by using a custom date picker. The time range is displayed at the top of the dashboard, so you can immediately see the context for which the data is presented. Additionally, you can share dashboards with a specific time context by including the time context parameters in a URL. URL parameters will be set automatically when users set the dashboard time context with the picker.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> This feature is currently available for the following widgets: Event list, Data points graph, Data points table, Map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is currently available for the following widgets: Event list, Data points graph, Data points table, and Map.
```

### To edit a dashboard {#to-edit-a-dashboard}

> To edit a dashboard, edit mode must be enabled. There are two primary ways to enter edit mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit a dashboard, the edit mode must be enabled. There are two primary ways to enter the edit mode:
```

> - Clickng on **Dashboard settings**: This modifies the overall properties of the dashboard, such as its name, description, position, availability, or appearance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clicking **Dashboard settings**: This modifies the overall properties of the dashboard, such as its name, description, position, availability, or appearance.
```

> - Clicking on **Edit widgets**: This manages the content of the dashboard, including adding, removing, or changing the position of widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clicking **Edit widgets**: This manages the content of the dashboard, including adding, removing, or changing the position of widgets.
```

> Once in edit mode, the redo and undo functionality is automatically enabled. This allows you to easily revert any unwanted changes you make to the dashboard. Any changes made to the dashboard in "Edit widgets" mode will not be reflected until you save them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once in edit mode, the redo and undo functionality is automatically enabled. This allows you to easily revert any unwanted changes you make to the dashboard. Any changes made to the dashboard in the edit mode will only be reflected on saving.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> The widgets and content on the dashboard are locked in order to prevent accidental modifications. Clicking the "Edit widgets" button unlocks this functionality and allows you to manipulate the dashboard's content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The widgets and content on the dashboard are locked in order to prevent accidental modifications. Clicking **Edit widgets** unlocks this functionality and allows you to modify the dashboard's content.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### To restore a dashboard state {#to-restore-a-dashboard}

> It is possible to restore your dashboard to a previous state using the version history. Navigate to the dashboard settings and open the "Version history" tab. This section will display a list of previous versions of your dashboard, including timestamps for each version. Hovering over a desired version from the list will reveal the "Restore" button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to restore your dashboard to a previous state using the version history. Navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Version history** tab. This section will display a list of previous versions of your dashboard, including timestamps for each version. Hovering over a desired version from the list will reveal the **Restore** button.
```

> When a new version is created in the version history, it includes a brief description of the changes made. New version is added each time after saving the dashboard when in edit mode or when editing the general settings of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new version is created in the version history, it includes a brief description of the changes made. A new version is added each time when saving the dashboard in edit mode or when editing the general settings of the dashboard.
```

An alternative way to copy a dashboard is to use the

> "dashboard per type" approach.  With the "dashboard per type" approach you share the dashboard from one object with **all** objects of the same type, see [To share a dashboard](#to-share-a-dashboard).

Author: ```suggestion
"dashboard per type" approach.  With the "dashboard per type" approach you share the dashboard from one object with **all** objects of the same type, see [To share a dashboard](#dashboard-template).
```
